README.md, before:

# COMEBin
GitHub repository for the manuscript "COMEBin allows effective binning of metagenomic contigs using COntrastive Multi-viEw representation learning".

## <a name="started"></a>Getting Started

### <a name="docker"></a>Install COMEBin via source code


Obtain codes and create an environment:
After installing Anaconda (or miniconda), first, obtain COMEBin:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ziyewang/COMEBin.git
```
Then create an environment to run COMEBin.

```sh
cd path_to_COMEBin
conda env create -f comebin_env.yaml
conda activate comebin_env
```

## <a name="preprocessing"></a>Preprocessing

The preprocessing steps aim to generate bam files as input to our program.

Several binning methods can generate bam files by aligning reads to contigs (such as MetaWRAP and MetaBAT), and we provide one way to generate the input files as follows.
### Generate bam files
To generate bam files from sequencing reads directly, run the following script slightly modified from the "binning.sh" of MetaWRAP. The script supports different types of sequencing reads, and the default type is "paired" ([readsX_1.fastq readsX_2.fastq ...]).

```sh
cd path_to_COMEBin
cd COMEBin/scripts

bash gen_cov_file.sh -a contig_file \
-o output_dir_of_bamfiles \
path_to_sequencing_reads/*fastq

Options:

        -a STR          metagenomic assembly file
        -o STR          output directory (to save the coverage files)
	-b STR          directory for the bam files (optional)
        -t INT          number of threads (default=1)
        -m INT          amount of RAM available (default=4)
        -l INT          minimum contig length to the bin (default=1000bp).
        --single-end    non-paired reads mode (provide *.fastq files)
        --interleaved   input read files contain interleaved paired-end reads
        -f              Forward read suffix for paired reads (default="_1.fastq")
	-r              Reverse read suffix for paired reads (default="_2.fastq")

```

And the users can run the following command to keep the contigs longer than 1000bp for binning.

```sh
cd path_to_COMEBin
cd COMEBin/scripts

python Filter_tooshort.py final.contigs.fa 1000
```


## <a name="started"></a>How to run COMEBin

### Run COMEBin
```sh
cd path_to_COMEBin/COMEBin

bash run_comebin.sh -a ${contig_file} \
-o ${output_path} \
-p ${path_to_bamfiles} \
-t 40

Usage: bash run_comebin.sh [options] -a contig_file -o output_dir -p bam_file_path
Options:

  -a STR          metagenomic assembly file
  -o STR          output directory
  -p STR          path to access to the bam files
  -n INT          number of views for contrastive multiple-view learning (default=6)
  -t INT          number of threads (default=5)
  -l FLOAT        temperature in loss function (default=0.15)
  -e INT          embedding size for combine network (default=2048)
  -c INT          embedding size for coverage network (default=2048)
  -b INT          batch size for training process (default=1024)
```

### or Run COMEBin step by step
We also support running COMEBin in individual steps. COMEBin mainly consists of three steps: (1) Get augmentation data, (2) Get representation, and (3) Clustering (run Leiden-based clustering methods and get final result).
#### (1) Get augmentation data
```sh
python main.py generate_aug_data --contig_file ${contig_file} \
--out_augdata_path ${out_augdata_path} \
--n_views 6 --bam_file_path ${bam_file_path} --num_threads 40
```
where ${bam_file_path} denotes the path to access the bam files and ${out_augdata_path} denotes the path to save the generated augmentaion data.

#### (2) Get representation (training process)
```sh
data=${out_augdata_path}

nepochs=200
temperature=0.15
n_views=6

emb_szs_forcov=2048
emb_szs=2048
batch_size=1024
n_layer=3

CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py train --data ${data} \
--epochs ${nepochs} --temperature ${temperature} --emb_szs_forcov ${emb_szs_forcov} \
--batch_size ${batch_size} --emb_szs ${emb_szs} --n_views ${n_views} --n_layer ${n_layer} \
--add_model_for_coverage \
--output_path ${output_path} --earlystop --addvars --vars_sqrt
```
where ${output_path}  denotes the path to save the output files.

#### (3) Clustering (run Leiden-based clustering methods and get the final result)
Leiden-based clustering:
```sh
emb_file=${output_path}/embeddings.tsv
contig_file=/mnt/data1/DeepBin/data/BATS_10samples/running_time/single_sample_mode_10sample/SRR5720233/BATS_SAMN07137079_METAG.scaffolds.min500.fasta.f1k.fasta
seed_file=${contig_file}.bacar_marker.2quarter_lencutoff_1001.seed

python main.py bin --contig_file ${contig_file} \
--emb_file ${emb_file} \
--output_path ${output_path} \
--seed_file ${seed_file} --num_threads 40
```
Get the final result:
```sh
emb_file=${output_path}/embeddings.tsv
seed_file=${contig_file}.bacar_marker.2quarter_lencutoff_1001.seed

python main.py get_result --contig_file ${contig_file} \
--output_path ${output_path} \
--seed_file ${seed_file} --num_threads 40
```


## <a name="contact"></a>Contacts and bug reports
Please feel free to send bug reports or questions to
Ziye Wang: zwang17@fudan.edu.cn and Prof. Shanfeng Zhu: zhusf@fudan.edu.cn

Commit message:

temperature in loss function (default=0.07 for assemblies with an N50 > 10000, default=0.15 for others)

README.md, after:

# COMEBin
GitHub repository for the manuscript "COMEBin allows effective binning of metagenomic contigs using COntrastive Multi-viEw representation learning".

## <a name="started"></a>Getting Started

### <a name="docker"></a>Install COMEBin via source code


Obtain codes and create an environment:
After installing Anaconda (or miniconda), first, obtain COMEBin:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ziyewang/COMEBin.git
```
Then create an environment to run COMEBin.

```sh
cd path_to_COMEBin
conda env create -f comebin_env.yaml
conda activate comebin_env
```

## <a name="preprocessing"></a>Preprocessing

The preprocessing steps aim to generate bam files as input to our program.

Several binning methods can generate bam files by aligning reads to contigs (such as MetaWRAP and MetaBAT), and we provide one way to generate the input files as follows.
### Generate bam files
To generate bam files from sequencing reads directly, run the following script slightly modified from the "binning.sh" of MetaWRAP. The script supports different types of sequencing reads, and the default type is "paired" ([readsX_1.fastq readsX_2.fastq ...]).

```sh
cd path_to_COMEBin
cd COMEBin/scripts

bash gen_cov_file.sh -a contig_file \
-o output_dir_of_bamfiles \
path_to_sequencing_reads/*fastq

Options:

        -a STR          metagenomic assembly file
        -o STR          output directory (to save the coverage files)
	-b STR          directory for the bam files (optional)
        -t INT          number of threads (default=1)
        -m INT          amount of RAM available (default=4)
        -l INT          minimum contig length to the bin (default=1000bp).
        --single-end    non-paired reads mode (provide *.fastq files)
        --interleaved   input read files contain interleaved paired-end reads
        -f              Forward read suffix for paired reads (default="_1.fastq")
	-r              Reverse read suffix for paired reads (default="_2.fastq")

```

And the users can run the following command to keep the contigs longer than 1000bp for binning.

```sh
cd path_to_COMEBin
cd COMEBin/scripts

python Filter_tooshort.py final.contigs.fa 1000
```


## <a name="started"></a>How to run COMEBin

### Run COMEBin
```sh
cd path_to_COMEBin/COMEBin

bash run_comebin.sh -a ${contig_file} \
-o ${output_path} \
-p ${path_to_bamfiles} \
-t 40

Usage: bash run_comebin.sh [options] -a contig_file -o output_dir -p bam_file_path
Options:

  -a STR          metagenomic assembly file
  -o STR          output directory
  -p STR          path to access to the bam files
  -n INT          number of views for contrastive multiple-view learning (default=6)
  -t INT          number of threads (default=5)
  -l FLOAT        temperature in loss function (default=0.07 for assemblies with an N50 > 10000, default=0.15 for others)
  -e INT          embedding size for combine network (default=2048)
  -c INT          embedding size for coverage network (default=2048)
  -b INT          batch size for training process (default=1024)
```

### or Run COMEBin step by step
We also support running COMEBin in individual steps. COMEBin mainly consists of three steps: (1) Get augmentation data, (2) Get representation, and (3) Clustering (run Leiden-based clustering methods and get final result).
#### (1) Get augmentation data
```sh
python main.py generate_aug_data --contig_file ${contig_file} \
--out_augdata_path ${out_augdata_path} \
--n_views 6 --bam_file_path ${bam_file_path} --num_threads 40
```
where ${bam_file_path} denotes the path to access the bam files and ${out_augdata_path} denotes the path to save the generated augmentaion data.

#### (2) Get representation (training process)
```sh
data=${out_augdata_path}

nepochs=200
temperature=0.15
n_views=6

emb_szs_forcov=2048
emb_szs=2048
batch_size=1024
n_layer=3

CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py train --data ${data} \
--epochs ${nepochs} --temperature ${temperature} --emb_szs_forcov ${emb_szs_forcov} \
--batch_size ${batch_size} --emb_szs ${emb_szs} --n_views ${n_views} --n_layer ${n_layer} \
--add_model_for_coverage \
--output_path ${output_path} --earlystop --addvars --vars_sqrt
```
where ${output_path}  denotes the path to save the output files.

#### (3) Clustering (run Leiden-based clustering methods and get the final result)
Leiden-based clustering:
```sh
emb_file=${output_path}/embeddings.tsv
contig_file=/mnt/data1/DeepBin/data/BATS_10samples/running_time/single_sample_mode_10sample/SRR5720233/BATS_SAMN07137079_METAG.scaffolds.min500.fasta.f1k.fasta
seed_file=${contig_file}.bacar_marker.2quarter_lencutoff_1001.seed

python main.py bin --contig_file ${contig_file} \
--emb_file ${emb_file} \
--output_path ${output_path} \
--seed_file ${seed_file} --num_threads 40
```
Get the final result:
```sh
emb_file=${output_path}/embeddings.tsv
seed_file=${contig_file}.bacar_marker.2quarter_lencutoff_1001.seed

python main.py get_result --contig_file ${contig_file} \
--output_path ${output_path} \
--seed_file ${seed_file} --num_threads 40
```


## <a name="contact"></a>Contacts and bug reports
Please feel free to send bug reports or questions to
Ziye Wang: zwang17@fudan.edu.cn and Prof. Shanfeng Zhu: zhusf@fudan.edu.cn
